development team.
Two years ago, we introduced iSync.
iSync was an end user application that
let you synchronize your contacts,
your calendars, with a phone, a PDA,
an iPod.
With .Mac,
you could synchronize your contacts
and your calendars to other computers.
And we soon introduced Safari bookmarks.
Today, it's my pleasure to be able to
tell you about Sync Services,
with which you can add
sync to your applications.
That kind of begs the question,
why would I want to sync?
Well, for those of us with
more than one computer,
it's a great way of never
having to worry about,
did I leave the changes on this
computer or that computer or over here?
Portable devices are becoming
more and more powerful,
and so it's convenient to be able to have
my information available on my phone,
or my palm, or wherever.
But there's another reason too,
and it's not one that's
immediately obvious when you
think about synchronization.
People have got different applications
that kind of do the same thing,
but some apps are better suited to one
particular kind of task than another.
Sync can be used to share data
between different applications.
What we're going to talk about
today is I'm going to tell
you what Sync Services is,
going to get into the architecture,
a bit of the data model,
and just give you a roadmap to the APIs.
I'm not going to get too
deeply into what the APIs are.
We've got a lot of great documentation
in the SDK that's on the Tiger DVD that
you've got with you in your bags,
and also available on the web.
There's a second session that directly
follows this one that's going to be a
much more hands-on oriented approach
into getting actually into how you write,
how you incorporate Sync
Services into your application.
So let's jump in and answer the question,
what is Sync Services?
It's a system service built directly
into Tiger for data synchronization.
The basic gist is,
you provide us with access to your data,
and we do the rest.
We take care of all of the syncing
and all of the sync smarts for that.
It's a single solution for everyone.
Today,
if you want to get your contacts from
your phone onto a Palm or some other PDA,
you often need two, three,
sometimes more different solutions.
We want to provide one
solution for everyone.
The problem with the existing
solutions today is that they
operate outside of your application.
And this leads to a number
of different problems.
There's the multiple writers issue,
meaning if you've got your application
and there's a separate sync process,
both trying to access your data store,
you have to solve the problem
of multi-process concurrent
access to your data.
And that's a hard problem to solve.
If you're going for a file sync solution,
you want to keep your Word documents
in sync with your laptop so you get
some kind of file sync solution.
There's a granularity issue there.
What happens if you change
the document in both places?
What happens if you change just
part of the document on one and
part of the document on the other?
It'd be great if you
could merge those two.
Proprietary formats.
If you're a device developer and
you want to sync your device to
some third-party application,
you have to go in,
reverse engineer their format,
and figure out how they
store their things.
And that doesn't really create
a lasting solution there.
What we're doing with Sync Services is
giving you the ability to build
sync directly into your application.
You focus on syncing your app,
and we'll take care of the rest,
getting it to interoperate
with other applications,
other devices, syncing between computers.
Sync's not just about applications.
It's for devices, too.
We've worked a lot with devices with
various kinds of memory limitations,
devices that can only store
a certain number of records,
fields of a certain length.
We've got some good solutions to
help you manage that filtering,
that formatting.
You provide the application to
manage and configure your device.
You incorporate Sync
into that application,
and it's the same way.
You sync the same way that you
would any other kind of application.
You synchronize your devices the same
way you synchronize your applications.
We're going for one
solution for everyone here.
I want to talk a little
bit about the design goals
because if you understand how,
what we were trying to do when
we set out to accomplish things,
I think it will really help you get into
the mode of what we were trying to do.
We started with a really simple precept.
Your data, where you want it,
when you want it.
And from that we derived
three basic design goals.
Syncs should be decoupled.
Syncs should be extensible.
And syncs should be invisible.
Let's jump into what these
mean a little bit more.
Syncs should be decoupled.
Now there's two things
that we mean by this.
Applications and devices should be able
to sync independently of each other.
Sometimes when I want to sync with .Mac,
my phone's not turned on.
Later, when my phone's available,
I don't have a network connection.
And yet I still want my changes to flow
back and forth between the two of them.
So we want to be able to synchronize
these things independently of each other.
Now that being said,
we also want to try to synchronize
these things at the same time.
If I'm syncing two devices independently,
I have to do three syncs.
One to get the changes from, say,
my phone into my computer,
and then from my computer
into address book,
and then from address book
back into my computer.
And then I have to sync them.
And then I have to sync
them back into my computer.
And then I have to sync my phone again
to get the changes back onto the phone.
So we want a way to be able
to try and sync both of these
things at the same time.
It reduces system resources.
It makes things go faster.
It's easier all around.
The second kind of thing,
the second kind of decoupling that
we're talking about is that schemas are
independent of applications and devices.
The bookmark data model
is not owned by Safari,
it's not owned by Mozilla.
Address Book does not
own the contact schema.
There's a clear separation
between the two there.
The data model needs to be extensible.
We provide some standard
schemas for contacts,
for bookmarks, for calendar entries.
If you want to be able to
exchange data between different
applications and devices,
you need to conform to that schema.
At the same time,
we want you to be able to
achieve perfect synchronization.
We're not going to be able to think of
everything that you're going to be able
to synchronize in your application.
We can't think of that ahead of time.
And so you need a way to extend the
standard data types to add your fields.
You need to be able to add new data
types if you want to synchronize photos,
for example.
And the most important point is
that syncs should be invisible.
The user should not have to explicitly
think about synchronization.
The idea is that changes should just flow
back and forth naturally between the two.
To that end,
we put your application in control.
You sync when you want to sync.
Now,
it's important that you try and maintain
application responsiveness during this.
Sometimes, syncs can take a while.
A device might be slow in responding.
There might be a lot of changes going on.
You don't want to give users the
spinning beach ball of death there.
The model that we've come up with
is what we call trickle syncing.
There's nothing that we do
to provide trickle syncing.
It's a way that you write your
applications to synchronize.
The idea is that we do
lots of frequent syncs.
The more we sync,
the fewer changes we do on each sync.
The fewer changes we
have to do on each sync,
the faster the syncs go.
The more frequently you can sync,
and so on and so forth.
It creates kind of a virtual cycle there.
So let's come back to the question
of what is Sync Services and
answer it again from a bit of
a more of a geek perspective.
It's a public framework.
This framework provides administration.
You register to synchronize.
You register your schemas.
It provides API with which you can
give changes to the Sync Engine.
The Sync Engine processes those
changes and gives changes back to you.
It's a daemon.
The Sync Engine runs inside
the Sync Server there.
It's a field level differencing engine,
and I'll come back to that point
a little bit later to explain
exactly what we mean by that.
But we're also coordinating syncs
between multiple applications,
devices, servers,
and the Sync Server takes care
of coordinating all of those.
And finally, Sync Services is a UI.
We provide a standard
UI for conflict resolution.
We provide an airbag panel
so that the user can protect
their data from rogue devices.
We provide an API for you to reset
a specific device or an application.
What I'm going to be focusing on
in this talk is mostly the Sync
Server and the Sync Framework there.
So let's get into some
of the details of Sync.
There's three things
I'm going to cover here.
We're going to talk about schemas.
We're going to talk about clients.
And then we're actually going to get into
the meat of how synchronization works.
So what can you synchronize?
I don't know how many of you went to
the core data talk a couple of days ago,
but for those of you who were there,
I'm going to do a quick recap
over what we can synchronize.
We use the entity relationship model.
This is the same model used
by the core data framework,
and it's sort of based on the
precept that if you can save it,
you can sync it.
On top of that,
we've added some extras just for sync.
Now, the entity relationship
model is an industry standard
way of decomposing data.
An entity describes a single,
discrete thing, a contact,
a phone number, a bookmark, an MP3, etc.
An entity has a name.
In our case, the name must be unique
across the whole space.
There's a global naming
space for entities there.
So we recommend using a DNS-style syntax,
com.apple.contacts.phone.
number, for example,
to avoid or to minimize
the risk of collisions.
Entities are composed of properties.
A property is an attribute
which describes a single
characteristic of the entity,
a first name, a last name,
something along those lines.
Attributes are strongly typed.
You see on the monitor here the
list of types that we support.
It's a fairly rich type,
and we can look at adding
new types in the future.
The basic types: strings, numbers, data,
date, etc.
We've got some aggregate types.
You can create arrays of
these primitive types.
You can create dictionaries
of these primitive types.
And we have an enum type.
An enum is basically a string with a
fixed set of values that are allowed.
And the engine will enforce a
certain level of data typing on this.
Relationships are very interesting.
Often data by itself
is not all that useful.
What's interesting are the roles,
the relationships between the data.
A relationship describes a
particular role between two entities.
For example,
a contact has one or more phone numbers.
A bookmark has a parent.
So a relationship is directional.
You have
There are two kinds of
ordinalities for a relationship.
You can have a two-one relationship,
or you can have a too-many relationship.
A two-one relationship is a one-to-one
association between two entities.
A bookmark has a single parent.
In a too-many relationship,
you've got multiple relationships.
A contact can have
multiple phone numbers,
for example.
There's the concept also
of an inverse relationship.
If you have a relationship from
a bookmark to its parent folder,
there's also going to be an interesting
relationship from a folder down
to the bookmarks that it contains.
And we'll come a little bit later
into why that's important to maintain.
So,
what happens when an entity is deleted?
This is, again,
where relationships come into play.
When you delete a particular entity,
we find all of the relationships
that point to that entity.
And we nullify them out.
You may also optionally say,
"When this entity is deleted,
I want you to traverse through this
relationship and delete all of the
guys that he points to." That's what
we call a cascading delete rule.
Some of the extra stuff that
we've added for Sync is the
notion of an identity property.
When you add a new record into
the Sync Services engine there,
we want to try and match that record
up against existing records already
provided against by other clients.
Otherwise, we'll end up with duplicates.
In the case of a contact,
we want to find a contact that
looks the same as this guy.
And we use the identity properties
for that kind of matching.
A contact,
your identity properties will most likely
be the first name and the last name.
Any object,
any record in the database that has the
same first name and last name is probably
going to be the same kind of record.
And so the Sync Engine will
merge those two records together.
An identity property can be a
relationship or an attribute.
For example, a phone number is bound
to a specific contact.
You don't want to match the phone
number from one person to the
phone number of another person.
You want to match the phone
number of another person to the
phone number of another person.
You want to match the phone
number of another person to the
phone number of another person.
You want to match the phone
number of another person to the
phone number of another person.
You want to match the phone
number of another person to the
phone number of another person.
You want to match the phone
number of another person to the
phone number of another person.
Even if they're the same phone number,
they might be two roommates.
And when one roommate moves away
and you change the phone number,
you don't want the other person's phone
number to change at the same time.
If you put the two contact relationship
into the identity set there,
what it's saying is that we will limit
the set of records we look at to all of
the records matched on that relationship.
There's the notion of
dependent properties.
For example,
let's say that I have a calendar event.
He's got a start date,
and he also has a bit specifying
whether or not he's an all-day event.
These are two separate fields,
and so I don't want to try and merge
them together in the sync engine,
but there is a semantic
relationship between the two.
If I change the start date on one event,
and I change the fact that
it's an all-day event on
another--on a different client,
I want the sync engine to
generate a conflict for that.
By putting those two in the
dependent properties set there,
by marking them as dependent properties,
the sync engine can catch and
generate conflicts for those,
even though they're two different fields.
I mentioned before the ability to extend
existing entities to add your own fields,
to add your own attributes.
These are what we call entity extensions.
You can even create new relationships
on an existing entity to another
entity or to a brand new entity.
But it's very careful that you don't
change the fundamental properties
of the entity that you're extending.
If you add a new cascading delete
rule or something like that,
you may end up causing bugs in
some other clients that were
depending on the original behavior.
Finally, we've introduced the
notion of a data class.
A data class is just an informal
association of entities,
an informal grouping of entities.
There tends to be a lot of entities that
are going to fall out in your schema.
You've got contacts, phone numbers, URLs,
AIM addresses,
all of these kinds of things.
And yet, in the mind of the user,
what they're thinking about for all of
those things is the notion of a contact.
And so the data class gives you a way
of presenting a user-friendly name
to your collection of classes there.
The Sync Engine itself doesn't
actually use data classes for anything
intrinsic to the Sync operations.
Your schema is described in a file.
This file contains the description
of all of your entities,
your extensions,
the attributes on the entities,
the relationships.
It's a standard plist file.
The format's well documented
in our documentation,
and it's contained in
a Sync Schema bundle.
That bundle can be located anywhere.
You can include it in a framework.
You can include it in your app wrapper.
You can put it in a
standard system location.
The key point to remember
here is that your schema is
decoupled from your application.
Even if you're writing your application,
your schema, and that's all that's going
to be syncing that schema,
in the eyes of the sync engine,
the two are not related to each other.
Your app does not own the schema.
We provide three standard
schemas for contacts,
calendars, and bookmarks,
and those are located in System, Library,
Sync Services schemas.
And I encourage you to go in,
open up the schema bundle,
find the plist,
and have a look through it
to see the standard formats.
Unfortunately, we don't have any
documentation on that yet,
but we hope to be addressing that
at some point in the near future.
So let's come back again to the
what can you synchronize question.
We've talked about entities,
relationships, attributes.
This defines the data model
that you can synchronize.
What you actually
synchronize are records.
A record is the basic unit of exchange.
In terms of the API,
it's expressed as an NSDictionary.
The keys are the attribute
and relationship names.
The values are the types that
correspond to the associated
attribute or relationship.
A record has an identifier,
and that identifier must be unique
across your entire entity space.
If you have a contact entity and
you have a phone number entity,
the records are,
the identifiers must be unique.
And this is where we differ a little bit
from your standard database terminology.
One key point is that your record
dictionary must contain an entity name.
You have to tell us what kind
of entity your record is.
The Sync Engine depends on being able
to know what kind of record it is so
it can do the right kind of matching,
the right things with the field values.
So we've talked a lot about applications,
devices.
We sort of mentioned that the Sync
Engine is a little bit agnostic.
It doesn't much care whether your
client is an application or a device.
And so we came up with
this generic name for them.
We call them Sync Clients.
A Sync Client has a unique identifier.
That is how your client is
identified to Sync Services.
You can also give it a user-friendly
display name and an image
for display in some sync UI.
There's a one-to-one
correspondence generally between
a client and a data source.
In the case of an application,
the association is pretty clear.
But in the case of a device,
you've got to think that I'm writing a
client for a specific kind of device,
but the user may end up
with multiple copies,
with multiple kinds of devices.
I've got many different kinds of phones.
I've got a couple of PDAs, two iPods.
Each of those corresponds
to a unique client that you
register with the Sync Engine.
A client description file provides a
template description for your client.
It generally contains
just the static details.
The type of your client,
is it an application or a device?
The list of entities
that you've synchronized,
and the specific properties on
those entities that you synchronize.
That's important to note.
Just because an entity defines a
set of fields doesn't mean that
your client is going to want to
synchronize all of those fields.
And so you can specify,
I'm only interested in synchronizing,
say, the first name and the last
name on the contact entity.
Some clients only push changes.
Some clients only pull changes.
The iPod is basically a pull-only device.
You only pull information onto the iPod.
The iPod is never going to
change that information.
By specifying that in the
client description file,
you can help the Sync Engine optimize
some of its processes.
Now, a lot of the times there's going to
be a one-to-one association between
the client and the client description.
And so you can also include a
display name and an image directly
in the client description file.
And if you're writing an application,
that's probably what you're going
to be using most of the time.
You can also specify that information
dynamically using the Sync Services.
So when a phone is registered,
when the user decides,
I want to synchronize a phone,
your client can figure out what kind of
phone it is and register the appropriate
name and image for that phone.
Let's get now into the actual
meat of how Sync works.
There's basically five phases of Sync.
I'm going to cover them
briefly here just so we have a
framework for the conversation,
and we'll start diving
into the nitty gritty.
The first thing you do is
you create a Sync session.
You then negotiate how
you're going to sync.
You push your changes into Sync Services.
We process all of those changes,
and then you pull what changes are
due to you back out of Sync Services.
Now, there's a couple of things
that you have to know first.
And what I'm going to cover
here is the truth database.
The Truth database is an aggregate
of all of the information
from all of the clients.
If you have a client that is
synchronizing contacts and he pushes in
just the first name and the last name,
you've got another client who's
synchronizing the first name,
the last name, and the company name.
What we store in the truth is the
aggregate of all of those fields,
the first name, the last name,
and the company name.
The truth is what the clients sync to,
not with each other.
If you remember I mentioned earlier that
clients are decoupled from each other,
and this is how we accomplish it.
A client can sync into the truth,
another client can come along
and sync into the truth,
and then they can pull their
changes directly out of the truth.
Now we are storing a
copy of the data here,
and that's worth keeping in mind.
If you're going to be
synchronizing photos,
if you're going to be
synchronizing large data files,
or things like that,
you probably don't want to push
that information into the truth.
Because then you're going to end
up with multi-gigabytes of data
lying around on the user's disk.
We're going to come up with a solution
for that at some point in the future.
The Client State Database.
What this contains is a snapshot
of all of the records on a device.
We need this information
for a couple of reasons.
What we do when we know
a record is on a device,
when the device gives a record to us,
or when we push a record to the client,
we store a copy of that
record in the client state.
The reason we do this is
so that on the next sync,
if the client gives
that record back to us,
we can pull what we knew was on
the client before out of the client
state and compare the two of them.
From that, we can figure out has this
record changed at all?
We can figure out specifically what
fields on that record have changed.
What we push into the sync server
are just the field level differences.
If you change just the first name,
we're not going to push
the whole record across.
We're going to push just the first
name across into the mingler.
The other place where this is used
is when we're formatting records.
I mentioned earlier that some devices
have limitations on the lengths
of the fields that they can store.
A phone may truncate
names at 20 characters,
for example.
So if we take a really long name
and we push it onto the phone,
the phone's going to truncate it.
If the phone then gives
that record back to us,
what we would do is we would
look at the shortened name,
we'd compare it to the longer
name in the client state,
we'd say, "Hey, this has changed," and
we'd end up propagating the
truncated name everywhere.
And that would make people
generally pretty unhappy.
So what we do is we store in the
client state the formatted record.
We're going to store the truncated
name in the database there,
in the client state,
so that when the client
gives that record back to us,
we'll compare the two fields, we'll say,
"Those are the same.
It hasn't changed." Unless, of course,
the user has actually physically
changed the name on the device.
Now you're probably thinking, "Oh great,
they're storing yet another
copy of all of my photos and my
contacts and the things." Well,
it's not that bad actually.
What we store in the client state is
really just a hash of the information
that we push to the device.
Just enough information so that we
can do that comparison successfully.
One important thing to understand
is that the record identifiers are
scoped to a particular name space.
Each client has its own name space.
The truth database has a name space,
and there is no correlation whatsoever
between any of these name spaces.
So if a client has a record called foo,
another client may have
a record called foo,
and those can be two
completely different records.
There is no association
between the two of them there.
So putting everything together,
the way things work is this.
A client is going to take a record,
give it to Sync Services.
Sync Services is going to pull the record
out of the client state and compare them.
If the record isn't in the client state,
then we know that this
must be a new record,
and we push what we call an
add into the Sync Server.
If the record exists in the client state,
we compare the two and push just
the field level differences.
So we're going to take a record,
give it to Sync Services,
and we push what we call an
add into the Sync Server.
The Sync Server processes those changes,
merges them into the truth,
and clients then pull all of
the changes out of the truth.
So,
coming back to the start of the process,
creating a sync session.
The first thing you have to understand
is you may not be allowed to synchronize,
and there's many reasons for this.
It could be that some other
client is already synchronizing.
Now, because the sync server is
writing into a common database,
we can't allow multiple people to
all synchronize at the same time.
We need to maintain a certain state of
integrity of the truth database there,
and so we can only process
sets of clients at a time.
So, if a client is already in
the middle of synchronizing,
other clients must wait
until that guy has finished.
It's important to be able
to maintain application
responsiveness throughout this.
So we provide both blocking
APIs for convenience,
but we also provide non-blocking
APIs so that you can basically
request to sync services.
I'd like to start a sync session now,
please.
Generally, you'll probably be able
to go straight away,
but if you can't, we'll call you back
when you're ready to go.
Now that being said,
I also mentioned earlier that we want
to synchronize clients simultaneously.
This is not a contradiction.
What Sync Services provides
is the notion of a sync alert.
When you register your client,
you can specify the kinds of clients
that you want to synchronize with.
Address book pretty much wants
to synchronize with anything.
So he'll says,
"I'll synchronize with apps,
I'll sync with devices,
I'll sync with servers." A server
would probably only synchronize when
other servers are synchronizing.
A phone would synchronize
when a server is syncing,
or when another phone is syncing.
So you specify at registration
time who you want to sync with.
When one of those guys
then starts syncing,
Sync Services delivers an
advisory notice to the clients
that have registered an interest.
This is an advisory notice only.
You're free to ignore it if
you're not ready to sync.
We definitely encourage
you to sync if you can.
There are two ways that the
notice can be delivered.
We can launch a tool
that you've registered.
We specify on the command line
to that tool the ID of the
entity that's being synchronized,
the ID of the client
that's being synchronized,
excuse me,
and the list of entities that are
being synchronized with that client.
Alternatively,
you can register a callback
directly in your application,
an object and a selector,
and we will invoke that selector saying,
"Hey,
now's a good time to sync if you like.
If you don't want to sync,
simply return without doing anything,
and we'll pass you by this time.
You can always sync later."
Now, why would you want to choose
one method over another?
Something like a server or a device
is probably going to register a tool
to actually do the synchronization.
They don't necessarily have any
multiple writers issues to worry
about or anything like that.
When they want to synchronize,
we just launch the tool,
and all of the logic's
embedded in that tool.
An application like iCal,
on the other hand, when it launches,
will register a dynamic callback.
While iCal is running,
we can call that callback
to tell iCal to synchronize.
When iCal quits,
the callback is deregistered implicitly,
and iCal won't sync anymore
until the next time it launches.
After you've successfully
created your sync session,
you go through and you
negotiate the sync modes.
Now there are four basic sync modes
that we need to talk about here.
The first of these is fast syncing.
Fast syncing is the preferred
mode of synchronization.
When you're fast syncing,
you're basically just telling the
engine what changes have happened
since the last time you synchronized.
You tell the engine,
"These are the records that
were added since I last synced.
These are the records that were
modified since I last synced.
These records have been deleted
since I last synchronized." That kind
of implies that you can maintain
all of that state information,
and not all applications,
not all devices are set up to do that.
Sometimes, even when you can
maintain that information,
you may not trust it.
If you synchronized a
device with another machine,
that information may be out of date.
In that case, you will want to slow sync.
When you slow sync,
you basically give all of
your records to Sync Services,
and we figure out what's changed.
You remember in the client state,
we store a complete copy of all of
the records that we knew to be on
your device or in your application
the last time we synchronized.
When you give us all of the records,
we basically go through and
we check off the records in
the client store one by one.
Anything left in the client store
afterwards is a record that used to
be in your client but isn't anymore,
and we will generate a
delete for those records.
And that's a very important
point to keep in mind.
When you slow sync,
you tell us about everything,
we figure out what the changes are,
and delete the records that you
didn't tell us about anymore.
Sometimes bad things happen.
A device can be reset.
The user can accidentally
delete your data store.
If you were to slow sync at that point,
what would happen is this.
We knew you had all of
these records before.
Now you tell us you've got nothing.
You must have deleted everything.
So we delete everything in the truth.
.Mac synchronizes.
We delete everything on .Mac.
By the time you get home,
all your data's gone.
I'm sure this has happened
to some of you in the past.
In this case,
what you want to do is do a refresh sync.
When you do a refresh sync,
we throw away everything
in the client store.
We forget everything
we ever knew about you,
and we go through this
process of rediscovery.
You give us all of your records.
We're going to pass those
into the sync server.
We're going to let him figure out.
He's going to take each of those records,
compare them to existing records in
the truth to try to find a match.
No deletes will be generated,
but what will happen is anything in
the truth that you didn't give us is
going to come back to you at that point.
So if your data store has been reset,
if your device has been erased,
you need to be able to tell us that
so that we can do a refresh sync.
We also have this notion of
pushing and pulling the truth.
There are times where a user just wants
to erase everything on a device or
an application or a computer and say,
replace it with the
contents of this computer.
I've got all of these
contacts in address book.
I know they're in a good state.
I want all of those on my phone.
That's a mode that we
call pulling the truth.
What happens when you pull the truth
is we expect you to delete all of
the records in your client's data
store and replace them with the
records that Sync Services gives you.
The converse to this
is pushing the truth.
When you push the truth,
what you're saying is,
I've got a known good state in
this specific client here that
I want to replicate everywhere,
through .Mac to all my other computers,
to all of my other devices,
and to all of my other applications.
When one client is pushing the truth,
Sync Services will tell all
other clients to pull the truth.
This is a very destructive operation.
So you only want the user
to initiate this operation.
Clients themselves should
never try to push the truth.
Now that being said,
none of these sync modes are actually
reflected directly in the API.
Instead,
what we did was we looked at these and
said there's a lot of commonality between
all of these different sync modes.
When you're slow syncing or refresh
syncing or pushing the truth,
we want you to push all of your
records out into Sync Services.
In some cases,
when you're pulling the truth,
we don't want you to push any records.
Sometimes we don't want you
to pull any records at all.
And so what we've done in
the API is we've focused in
on those specific actions,
and we've oriented our
API around those actions.
So don't be surprised if you go
looking in the API and you don't
see fast sync or slow sync or
refresh sync mentioned anywhere.
It's the concepts that are important.
So let's come back to
pushing changes now.
You've got a choice when
you push your changes.
First thing you're going to do is
you're going to ask Sync Services,
should I push all of my records,
or can we fast sync here?
If you can fast sync,
then we only want you to tell us about
the records that have been added,
modified, or removed since the last
time you synchronized.
You've got a choice here too.
You can do the hard work.
If you know what specific
fields have changed,
you can tell us.
We just changed the
first name on this guy,
we deleted this record,
and we changed the
company name on this guy.
Alternatively, if you don't want to go to
all of that extra effort,
you can just give us the whole record,
and we'll figure out what's
happened by pulling the information
out of the client state there.
We're going to package those
things up and push the field level
differences over to the Sync Server.
So what happens if something
goes wrong right now?
You're in the middle of pushing
all of your changes and the
device runs out of battery,
or your application crashes,
or God forbid, Sync Services crashes and
takes you down with it.
What happens at this point?
When you first start pushing changes,
we create an implicit transaction scope.
All of the changes that you
push are going to fall into
that transaction scope,
which is closed when you tell us,
"I'm done.
I've got no more changes for
you." And we ship the whole
thing off to the Sync Server.
If something goes wrong in the
middle of that transaction scope,
we're going to unwind the whole thing.
We're going to roll them back.
We're going to forget all
of the changes you made.
The next time you synchronize,
if you're smart enough
to be able to figure out,
"Well, I was halfway through
pushing at that point,
so I need to re-push all of those
changes again," then by all means,
go ahead and fast sync.
It might be safer to
slow sync at that point,
however.
You can tell the engine,
"I'm just going to give you everything.
You figure out what's changed."
Now, some of you might be wondering,
why do they roll back all of the
changes that we've already given them?
Why don't they just take
what we've given them,
process them at that point,
and we'll pick up where we left off?
The problem is that when you introduce
relationships into the question,
there's a whole set of data
integrity issues that come up,
that come into play.
You might have pushed a couple
of records in that refer to some
records that haven't been pushed yet,
because the device ran out of batteries,
so you couldn't get those records.
And so we erred on the side of safety,
and just said,
we're going to replay the whole thing
to get back to a known good state.
What we want to do is protect
the data in the truth.
Mingling is the heart of Sync.
This is where we take all of the
changes from all of the clients
and we merge them into the truth.
We process the changes on
a client by client basis.
So we take all of the
changes from address book,
we merge them into the truth.
Take all of the changes from .Mac,
merge them in.
All of the changes from the phone,
and merge them in.
It's here that we do
our conflict detection.
If a phone has changed the first name,
and the first name has also changed on
.Mac since the last time it synchronized,
we need to generate a
conflict at that point.
Again, let's ask the question,
what happens if something goes bad here?
The answer is,
you don't have to worry about it.
That's our problem.
Once those changes have
been handed off to us,
we're responsible for them.
We will make sure they
get into the truth,
or we will take steps to recover
by asking for all records
from all of the clients again.
Again, let's ask the question,
what happens if something goes bad here?
The answer is,
you don't have to worry about it.
That's our problem.
Once those changes have
been handed off to us,
we're responsible for them.
We will make sure they
get into the truth,
or we will take steps to recover
by asking for all records
from all of the clients again.
So, we're going to use the schema
bundle to specify some code
that gets loaded into the Sync
Server to handle those conflicts.
He gets first crack at them.
When we detect a conflict,
we're going to ask this code,
can you deal with this?
If he says yes,
we'll merge the response into the truth.
If he says no, we're going to store the
conflict off on the side.
We don't want to pop a panel up in the
user's face right in the middle of sync.
Remember, applications and things can
be synchronizing at any time,
and having panels popping up saying,
what do you want to do about this?
What do you want to do about this?
It's going to get really
stale really quickly.
Instead, what we do is we save the
conflicted records off to the side,
and we notify the user through a little
UI element that he's got some conflicts.
We need his attention.
And when the user's ready,
they can pull those conflicts
up and resolve them,
and they'll be merged in the
next time they synchronize.
Pulling changes is pretty
much the easy part.
Clients pull changes directly
from the truth database.
They don't pull them
from the Sync Server.
Once the Sync Server has
finished mingling,
he's done.
He's off, and someone else can come in
and synchronize at that point.
What we do is we maintain a
snapshot of the truth database
for some self-consistency there.
It's held as long as clients
are pulling truth out of it.
When you're getting
changes out of the truth,
you have a choice.
We give you both the deltas.
We also give you the full record.
So you can go in and look.
Did I change just the first
name or the last name?
Or you can take the whole
record and push it onto the
device or into your application.
You can filter out records
that you don't want.
There's two ways this can be done.
We can give you all of the records,
and you can tell us, I want this one,
I want this one, I don't want this one.
Sometimes it's much easier if
you just write a little filter
independently that's loaded into sync
services that does that filtering
for you so that you only get the
records that you're concerned with.
For example,
in the phone device configuration UI,
I might want to specify I'm only
going to synchronize contacts
in this one specific group.
We've got some standard
filters for that kind of thing.
And so your UI can say,
let's use this filter for this client.
That gets loaded into sync services.
It gets rid of the records
that we don't want.
And only gives to the client the
records that pass through that filter.
When the engine gives you a new record,
we're going to make up
an ID for that record.
The reason is that there may be
relationships referring to that guy.
We need to know what to call him.
We're going to use a UUID for that,
but that may not always
be convenient for you.
If you're going to push a record onto a
phone or store it in your own database,
you probably want to use
your own identifier for that.
And so record identifiers can be changed.
Any earlier references in a relationship
that we've already given to you,
we can't change those, of course.
But once you change a record identifier,
any references that we give you after
that will use the new record identifier.
Sync Services uses a two-phase
commit process at this point.
Again, to answer the question,
what happens if something goes wrong?
By two-phase commit, in this case,
I mean when the engine
gives you a record,
you tell the engine, yes,
I want this record, or no,
I don't want this record.
Up to you to decide,
but you've got to tell
us one way or another.
If you don't tell us that you
accepted or rejected a record,
we're going to give it
to you on the next sync.
and the next sync until you tell
us what to do with that record.
Now, if you're talking to a low latency
device over a USB connection to a phone,
over a dial-up connection to a server,
it's not going to be terribly efficient
if you have to push the record
and then tell us you accepted it,
and push the record and tell us, yes,
it made it there, okay.
And so we allow you to
do this batching process.
What you can do is just tell
us you accepted a record,
got this one, got this one, thanks.
And then you tell us,
I've committed the records that
I told you I accepted or Now,
if you're talking to a low latency
device over a USB connection to a phone,
over a dial-up connection to a server,
it's not going to be terribly efficient
if you have to push the record
and then tell us you accepted it,
and push the record and tell us, yes,
it made it there, okay.
And so we allow you to
do this batching process.
What you can do is just tell
us you accepted a record,
got this one, got this one, thanks.
And then you tell us,
I've committed the records
that I told you I accepted or
What happens if something goes bad is we
unwind that implicit transaction scope.
When you first start pulling changes,
we create a new transaction.
As you accept and reject changes,
we write them into the transaction.
And when you commit
those acknowledgements,
we commit and close that transaction
and implicitly create a new one.
So if something bad happens,
we're going to unroll back
to the last time you called,
committed those changes,
last time you told us you
and we're going to give them
to you on the next sync.
So the five phases of sync,
you can think of them as
a finite state machine.
The phases must be traversed in order,
but they can be canceled
or finished at any time.
The typical application sync model
that we recommend for people is this.
When you first launch,
do a sync to pick up any changes
that have been made since the last
time your application was run.
Do it in the background.
Again, remember to maintain
application responsiveness.
We give you the methods to query
whether you need to slow sync,
or we can tell you whether you think
a sync is going to take a long time.
If so,
pop up a panel to the user and say, "Hey,
this may take a long time.
Do you want to do this now?" Or if you're
going to be even more sophisticated,
just do the sync in the
background and let the user
carry on with the app normally.
As they make changes throughout
the course of the application,
trickle sync periodically
to push those changes out.
When you save to disk,
do a sync to get the changes out.
When you quit,
what we want is to get those changes
out to the sync engine again.
You don't necessarily at that point want
to wait for the whole sync to complete.
The user's quitting.
You want to get out of there
as quickly as possible.
What you can do is create a session,
push your changes, and then finish it.
You're done.
You don't have to wait for the mingling.
You're definitely not going to pull
any changes at that point because
they're quitting the application.
They don't need it.
The device has got a much simpler model,
typically.
When a user initiates a sync,
there's an explicit action on
the part of the user there.
The device is plugged in,
they hit the hot sync button,
a sync alert comes in because some
other device is synchronizing.
Just go through the
whole sync at that point.
So let's talk a little bit about the API.
What I'm going to do here is not
actually get into the details.
As I said, we've got some great reference
documentation on the Tiger DVD.
What I want to do is just
give you a roadmap to some of
the more important classes.
Now, the API is Cocoa-based,
but it's procedurally oriented
for a number of reasons.
What this means is it's
easily wrapped in Java.
I've got a lot of experience doing that,
so we kept that in mind
while designing this API.
You can also use it easily from C.
We support almost all of
the core foundation types,
the core foundation
toll-free bridge types.
Most of the more important data
types are toll-free bridge types.
And so again,
using this from Carbon is no problem.
There are five classes
that we're interested in:
iSync Manager, iSync Client,
iSync Session, iSync Change,
and the Record Snapshot.
I-Sync Manager is the singleton object.
He is your basic administrative
point of contact there.
He's where you go to
register your schemas.
register your clients.
He's where you go to look up the
clients that have been registered.
Not a lot to him there.
iSync Client represents a
registered device or application.
This is where you can get information.
The identifier, the display name,
the image of the guy,
what entities does he support,
how is he going to sync.
I want him to reset
the next time he syncs.
You can specify how he's
going to synchronize.
And use iSync Client to set
up sync alerts to specify,
I want this tool to be
launched when these kinds of
clients start synchronizing.
An iSync session encapsulates the whole
sync process that we just talked about.
He's got all of the methods to walk
you through the state machine there.
He's got the methods that
you can use to query,
how should I sync?
He's got the methods to allow
you to pull the changes out,
to accept them, and to commit them.
And the key point to know
here is that there is only
one sync session per client,
per machine allowed.
We've got a Sync Serve that's
going to gate that,
and we will not let the same
client sync multiple times.
So you don't have to worry about
preserving that kind of semantics.
An iSync change encapsulates all
of the changes to a single record.
The change specifies
whether it's a new record,
an existing record being modified,
or a record being deleted.
And he contains all of the field
level changes to that specific record.
The changes that you get from the Sync
Server will contain those field deltas.
It will also contain a
full copy of the record.
If you're smart enough to be able to
tell the Sync Server what the field
level changes are to your records,
you can create one of these.
You only need to specify
the field level deltas.
You don't need to give
us the whole record.
[Transcript missing]
The times where you might
want to use the snapshot,
for example, are to give you an example,
in the case of a phone that's
synchronizing calendar events.
A phone doesn't actually synchronize
the calendar lists themselves.
And yet,
when you create an event on the phone,
it has to be filed in some calendar.
So there's a bit of a paradox here.
What you can do is you can use
the snapshot to get the list
of calendars out of the truth.
You can let the user in the configuration
UI choose a specific calendar
and remember the ID of that guy.
And when your device,
when your client is pushing those new
calendar events into Sync Services,
you just set up a relation saying,
this guy belongs in this calendar,
even though you're not syncing him.
One thing to note is that the
truth database is organized
to be efficient for sync,
not efficient necessarily for you.
So don't use this too often as
a general purpose database API.
You'll find the results a bit
disappointing in that respect.
So let's have a quick recap.
What do you do?
You register your schemas,
you register your clients,
you push data into Sync Services,
you pull your changes
out of Sync Services,
and you provide the UI to
configure your client.
We take care of all of the rest.
We synchronize your data,
we detect conflicts,
and we provide a standard UI for
the user to resolve those conflicts.
We give you an airbag to
preserve the data integrity,
and we provide a .Mac
client to synchronize data
between multiple machines.
The design goals that underlie
everything that we've done with Sync.
Decoupled.
Decoupled clients,
schemas separate from the applications.
Extensible schemas,
and Syncs must be invisible.
Now, if you have questions,
you can contact
Patrick Collins or Xavier,
and we definitely
encourage you to file bugs.
Radar is our friend in that respect.
For more information,
we've got a lot of great documentation.
The reference documentation
is on your Tiger DVD.
It's also available on connect.apple.com.
The concept documentation,
which I highly recommend you read,
some great docs there,
is only available on
the web at this point.
We didn't manage to get it onto the DVD.
And we've got some sample code
for some sample applications.
It's in the usual place,
in Developer Examples, Sync Services.